# Pandas-Challenge

Module 04 Challenge: UWA/edx Data Analytics Bootcamp

Github repository at: https://github.com/RyanLJames1997/Pandas-Challenge

## Introduction

## Scope

In this challenge, a data scientist, we are to create and manipulate Pandas Dataframes to analyse [school] and [standard_test] data.

### Goal

The overall goal of this analysis is to aggregate the provided data to identify trends in school performance across a [Local_Government_Area].

### Dataset

The dataset was generated by the team at **edX Boot Camps LLC** and **Mockaroo LLC 2022**

## Approach

### Dataframe Intialisation
1. Rename and clean-up column headings for consistency.
2. Rearrange [student_details] and [school_details] so they are seperate.
3. Merge results into a new Dataframe.

### Local Government Area (LGA) Summary

Perform necessary calculations and deliver a high-level snapshot of the following key metrics:

- Total number of unique schools

- Total students

- Total budget

- Average maths score

- Average reading score

- % passing maths (the percentage of students who passed maths)

- % passing reading (the percentage of students who passed reading)

- % overall passing (the percentage of students who passed maths AND reading)

- Note: A passing grade is 50 or higher.

### School Summary

Perform necessary calculations and deliver a high-level snapshot of the following key metrics:

- School name

- School type

- Total students

- Total school budget

- Per student budget

- Average maths score

- Average reading score

- % passing maths (the percentage of students who passed maths)

- % passing reading (the percentage of students who passed reading)

- % overall passing (the percentage of students who passed maths AND reading)

## Analysis & Results

### Highest-Performing Schools (by % Overall Passing)
- Sort the schools by % Overall Passing in descending order and display the top 5 rows.
  
 - Save the results in a DataFrame called "top_schools".

### Lowest-Performing Schools (by % Overall Passing)
- Sort the schools by % Overall Passing in ascending order and display the top 5 rows.
  
 - Save the results in a DataFrame called "bottom_schools".

### Maths Scores by Year
- Perform the necessary calculations to create a DataFrame that lists the average maths score for students of each year level (9, 10, 11, 12) at each school.

### Reading Scores by Year
- Create a DataFrame that lists the average reading score for students of each year level (9, 10, 11, 12) at each school.

### Scores by School Spending
- Create a table that breaks down school performance based on average spending ranges (per student).
  
 - Use the code provided below to create four bins with reasonable cutoff values to group school spending.

- Use the scores above to create a DataFrame called spending_summary.

- Include the following metrics in the table:

- Average maths score

- Average reading score

- % passing maths (the percentage of students who passed maths)

- % passing reading (the percentage of students who passed reading)

- % overall passing (the percentage of students who passed maths AND reading)

### Scores by School Size
- Use pd.cut on the "Total Students" column of the per_school_summary DataFrame.
  
- Create a DataFrame called size_summary that breaks down school performance based on school size (small, medium, or large).

### Scores by School Type
- Use the per_school_summary DataFrame from the previous step to create a new DataFrame called type_summary.
  
- This new DataFrame should show school performance based on the "School Type".
